Update how to extend Ballerina for specific webhooks (#1354)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-www: website/two-column-pages/docs/learn/how-to-extend-ballerina.md

# How to Extend Ballerina

Developers and third parties can extend the behavior of Ballerina and collate the customizations for use by others. There are three ways to customize the behavior of Ballerina:

1. Collate and distribute new client connectors to third party endpoints, such as databases, infrastructure and APIs.

2. Add new annotations to Ballerina source files so that the compiler can act to alter binaries and generate artifacts.

> 3. Collate and distribute new webhook callback services, that programmatically subscribe to accept content delivery requests on the occurrence of particular events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Collate and distribute new webhook callback services, that programmatically subscribe to accept content delivery requests on the occurrence of particular events.
```

You don't use a comma after "that".

1. The [Ballerina file defining the annotation](https://github.com/ballerinax/kubernetes/blob/master/kubernetes-extension/src/main/ballerina/ballerinax/kubernetes/annotation.bal).

2. The [Java code with the builder extension](https://github.com/ballerinax/kubernetes/tree/master/kubernetes-extension/src/main/java/org/ballerinax/kubernetes).

## Create Webhook Callback Services

A webhook callback service type is introduced by implementing a new `listener` type wrapping the generic 

> `websub:Listener`. The implementation should define a mapping between an indicator (in the content delivery requests) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`websub:Listener`. The implementation should define a mapping between an indicator (in the content delivery requests).
```

> and the resources (to which the requests need to be dispatched based on the value of the indicator).

Reviewer: Why do we have a gap between this and the previous line?

> This indicator, based on which the extension is done, could be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This indicator could be one of the following  based on the extension done:
```

Reviewer: +1

- A request header 
- The payload - the value for a particular key in the JSON payload
- A request header and the payload (combination of the above)
 
The [ballerina/websub Module.md](stdlib/websub/src/main/ballerina/websub/Module.md) explains the extension points in detail.
 
You can create and share your own webhook callback service types as Ballerina modules, which you push into a Ballerina registry (such as Ballerina Central).

> To create a webhook callback service type, you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to create a webhook callback service type.
```

1. Create a Ballerina module in a Ballerina project.

2. Create a new `listener` wrapping the generic `websub:Listener`.

3. Implement the `__init()` function specifying the mapping between possible notifications and resources as `extensionConfig`.

4. Implement the `__attach()`, `__start()` and `__stop()` functions calling the same functions on the generic `websub:Listener`.

5. Build the module and push it into a registry for usage by others.

### The GitHub Webhook

> A GitHub webhook implementation is made available by WSO2 as the module `wso2/githubwebhook3`.

Author: The module itself contains the implementation. How about
```suggestion
A GitHub webhook implementation is made available by WSO2 as the `wso2/githubwebhook3` module.
```

> This webhook can be used by anyone, by importing the `wso2/githubwebhook3` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This webhook can be used by anyone by importing the `wso2/githubwebhook3` module.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/websub;
import wso2/githubwebhook3;

// Initiate a new listener of type `githubwebhook3:WebhookListener`.
listener githubwebhook3:WebhookListener githubListener = new(8080);

> // Attach a service accepting ping, issue opened and repository starred notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Attach a service accepting 'ping', 'issue opened' and 'repository-starred notifications'.
```

    }

    resource function onIssuesOpened(websub:Notification notification, githubwebhook3:IssuesEvent event) {
        io:println("[onIssuesOpened] Issue ID: ", event.issue.number);
    }

    resource function onWatch(websub:Notification notification, githubwebhook3:WatchEvent event) {
        io:println("[onWatch] Repository starred by: ", event.sender);
    }
}
```

### The `WebhookListener` Object

The `WebhookListener` object that is implemented as a `listener` for the GitHub webhook callback service.

```ballerina
public type WebhookListener object {

    *AbstractListener;

    public WebhookListenerConfiguration? webhookListenerConfig = ();

    private websub:Listener websubListener;

    public function __init(int port, WebhookListenerConfiguration? config = ());

    public function __attach(service s, map<any> data) returns error?;

    public function __start() returns error?;
    
    public function __stop() returns error?;
};
```

### Implement the `__init()` function

For the GitHub webhook, the mapping between events and resources could be based either only on a header or on both a header and the payload.

e.g.,

> - When the repository is starred, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When the repository is starred, the content-delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with 
```

the value set to "watch".

> - When an issue is opened, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When an issue is opened, the content-delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the 
```

            ...
            "closed": ("onIssuesClosed", IssuesEvent),
        }
    }
    ...
};

public type WebhookListenerConfiguration record {
    string host?;
    http:ServiceSecureSocket httpServiceSecureSocket?;
    !...
};

function WebhookListener.__init(int port, WebhookListenerConfiguration? config = ()) {
    self.webhookListenerConfig = config;
    websub:ExtensionConfig extensionConfig = {
        topicIdentifier: websub:TOPIC_ID_HEADER_AND_PAYLOAD,
        topicHeader: TOPIC_HEADER,
        headerResourceMap: GITHUB_TOPIC_HEADER_RESOURCE_MAP,
        headerAndPayloadKeyResourceMap: GITHUB_TOPIC_HEADER_AND_PAYLOAD_KEY_RESOURCE_MAP
    };
    websub:SubscriberServiceEndpointConfiguration sseConfig = {
        extensionConfig: extensionConfig
    };
    if (config is WebhookListenerConfiguration) {
        string? specHost = config["host"];
        if (specHost is string) {
            sseConfig.host = specHost;
        }
        sseConfig.httpServiceSecureSocket = config["httpServiceSecureSocket"];
    }
    self.websubListener = new(port, config = sseConfig);
}
```

### Implement the `__attach()`, `__start()` and `__stop()` functions

> The implementions of these functions only need to call the same functions on the wrapped `websub:Listener`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementations of these functions need to call only the functions of the wrapped `websub:Listener`.
```

Author: Fixed the typo. The functions are called on the wrapped object (`listener.__init()`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementations of these functions only need to call the corresponding functions of the wrapped `websub:Listener`.
```

`websub:Listener`. The implementation should define a mapping between an indicator in the content delivery requests 
and the resources to which the requests need to be dispatched based on the value of the indicator.
 
This indicator, based on which the extension is done, could be:
- A request header 
- The payload - the value for a particular key in the JSON payload
- A request header and the payload (combination of the above)
 
The [ballerina/websub Module.md](stdlib/websub/src/main/ballerina/websub/Module.md) explains the extension points in detail.
 
You can create and share your own webhook callback service types as part of Ballerina modules that you push into a Ballerina registry, such as what is available at Ballerina Central.

To create a webhook callback service type, you:

1. Create a Ballerina module in a Ballerina project.

2. Create a new `listener` wrapping the generic `websub:Listener`.

3. Implement the `__init()` function specifying the mapping between possible notifications and resources as `extensionConfig`.

4. Implement the `__attach()`, `__start()` and `__stop()` functions calling the same functions on the generic `websub:Listener`.

> 5. Build the module and push it into a registry for usage by others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Build the module and push it into a registry to be used by others.
```

Author: These are the same steps as for client connectors.

IMO, "to be used" could be misleading, not clear if we are talking about the registry itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Build the module and push it into a registry for others to use it.
```
Bette to say the idea directly and simply.

### The GitHub Webhook

A GitHub webhook implementation is made available by WSO2 as the module `wso2/github`.

This webhook can be used by anyone by importing the `wso2/github` module.

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/websub;
import wso2/github;

// Initiate a new listener of type `github:WebhookListener`.
listener github:WebhookListener githubListener = new(8080);

// Attach a service accepting ping, issue opened and repository starred notifications.
@websub:SubscriberServiceConfig {

>    path:"/webhook",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   path: "/webhook",
```

   subscribeOnStartUp: true,
   hub: github:HUB,
   topic: "https://github.com/<GH_USERNAME>/<GH_REPO_NAME>/events/*.json", // subscribe to notifications for all events
   secret: "<SECRET>",
   callback: "<CALLBACK_URL>", // only needs to be specified if not http(s)://<HOST>:<PORT>/<path>
   subscriptionClientConfig: {
        auth: {

>             scheme:http:OAUTH2,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            scheme: http:OAUTH2,
```

>             accessToken:"<GH_ACCESS_TOKEN>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            accessToken: "<GH_ACCESS_TOKEN>"
```

        io:println("[onPing] Webhook Registered: ", event);
    }

    resource function onIssuesOpened(websub:Notification notification, github:IssuesEvent event) {
        io:println("[onIssuesOpened] Issue ID: ", event.issue.number);
    }

    resource function onWatch(websub:Notification notification, github:WatchEvent event) {
        io:println("[onWatch] Repository starred by: ", event.sender);
    }
}
```

### The `WebhookListener` Object

The `WebhookListener` object that is implemented as a `listener` for the GitHub webhook callback service.

```ballerina
public type WebhookListener object {

    *AbstractListener;

    public WebhookListenerConfiguration? webhookListenerConfig = ();

    private websub:Listener websubListener;

    public function __init(int port, WebhookListenerConfiguration? config = ());

    public function __attach(service s, map<any> data) returns error?;

    public function __start() returns error?;
    
    public function __stop() returns error?;
};
```

### Implement the `__init()` function

For the GitHub webhook, the mapping between events and resources could be based either only on a header or on both a header and the payload.

e.g.,

> - when the repository is starred, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the value set to "watch".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the repository is starred, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the value set to "watch".
```

> - when an issue is opened, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When an issue is opened, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the 
```

value set to "issues", and the `json` payload will contain the value "opened" for the key "action".

The implementation of the `__init()` function initializes the `websub:Listener` specifying the mapping to the resources as the `extensionConfig`.
```ballerina
const string TOPIC_HEADER = "X-GitHub-Event";

final map<(string, typedesc)> GITHUB_TOPIC_HEADER_RESOURCE_MAP = {

>     "ping" : ("onPing", PingEvent),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "ping": ("onPing", PingEvent),
```

    ...

>     "watch" : ("onWatch", WatchEvent)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "watch": ("onWatch", WatchEvent)
```

};

final map<map<map<(string, typedesc)>>> GITHUB_TOPIC_HEADER_AND_PAYLOAD_KEY_RESOURCE_MAP = {

>     "create" : {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "create": {
```

>         "ref_type" : {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "ref_type": {
```

>             "repository" : ("onCreateRepository", CreateEvent)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            "repository": ("onCreateRepository", CreateEvent)
```

            ...
        }
    },

>     "issues" : {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "issues": {
```

>         "action" : {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "action": {
```

>             "opened" : ("onIssuesOpened", IssuesEvent),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            "opened": ("onIssuesOpened", IssuesEvent),
```

            ...

>             "closed" : ("onIssuesClosed", IssuesEvent),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            "closed": ("onIssuesClosed", IssuesEvent),
```
